Clearly clear apart from possibly the last point
where I think I got cut off by the
template submission thing.
Mm-hmm. Um, generally basic opposition to the bill
with some caveats around the sexual health stuff.
Um, so I kind of want to just talk about
how teaching feels at the moment and to be perfectly honest
and, you know, spoiler alert, it doesn't feel very good.
Last year definitely didn't feel
as though there was much faith or respect
or trust from the ministry
or senior members of the current government in us.
Um, I'm gonna use a quote.
A friend of mine gave me, um, that at the moment, frankly,
teaching kind of feels like we're kind
of riding a wrecking ball
and we're kind of being smashed against either side of
what feels like a ideological and political divide.
And there doesn't really seem to be much desire
to find a middle ground.
And our job is just to cling on and try
and not get pulverized in the process.
Okay. That's,
that was from my friend.
He is a economics teacher.
Um, 10 years ago when I first met him,
we were doing social work together while
we were both doing our training.
He was, at the time very, very proud and very clear
and very happy to tell everyone
that he was a national party voter.
I don't think he is anymore based on what he has said
to me in the last two years since
we've been teaching at the same school.
Um, what else would I add to his
weird wrecking ball analogy about how teaching feels?
At the same time I would add a red extreme weather
warning, extreme never weather event happening while we are
riding this wrecking ball.
Not necessarily caused by,
but certainly made a great deal worse by the climate crisis,
which kind of also impacts, frankly,
to be speaking way too honestly, our feeling of sort
of like purpose and what's the point?
Like what is the point in teaching Shakespeare when we are
wondering about whether or not to close the school due
to an extreme level, extreme red weather, weather warning.
Like there's a strong feeling of what's the point
when you are debating about whether
or not schools should be open during the Red River red
level weather event and,
and ex feeling, frankly from my perspective,
that in eventually 10 years, schools gonna kind
of end up like a civil defense hub
based on the way things are feeling at the moment.
That is largely the main thing I wanted to,
to express in terms of how education feels to me.
Um, so their country, as we know,
is gonna experience a huge amount of problems.
And one thing which would be great is
that if education had some consistency
and a clear direction of travel, which from my perspective
involves both major parties actually coming together
and trying to reach compromises
and a degree of consensus on an education system
and an education framework.
Um, and that doesn't mean
the minister inviting the spokesperson
for education from the other major party to a meeting
where they're told what is happening that isn't consensus,
that isn't, uh, by the way, not a labor voter,
never voted labor, never going to by the way,
but that that is not building consensus,
that is not building a consistent education system,
which isn't gonna be constantly
swinging like a massive wrecking ball in either direction,
pulverizing teachers and students.
So that's basically what I have to say.
If you just have any questions, feel free.
Thank you. We do have time for brief questions.
Those questions. My first one is from five minutes.
You five minutes. He did start at 1152. Sorry. Team.
Um, Lawrence, you had your hand up first. Yeah.
Um, just thank you Chair. Uh, sorry, very quick question.
Um, your submission around teaching, thank you
for your submission, your
submission around teaching council.
I want to check with you, how would the changes affect the
teaching profession, which we in turn affect the way
that teachers could teach the children?
I think I would say a degree.
It would affect confidence in it
and a feeling of representation
and the
ideally what you would have as you would have a situation
where the council, which governs our registration,
our activities, that sort of thing.
Uh, the professional body has actually got a
high proportion of representatives
from the teaching profession.
If it does not, I would question
really its ability to do its job.
If there's a whole bunch of people there
who don't necessarily have backgrounds in education
and they're appointed by say a minister.
Thank you James. We have now
reached the end of our time with you.
Appreciate you making yourself available. Thank you.
Being part of this process. Uh, very appreciated.
Thank you very much. We are now going, uh, out
of public session.